best practices: add three-node deployment best practices (#3698)
pingcap/docs: three-nodes-hybrid-deployment.md

---
title: Best Practices for Three-Node Hybrid Deployment
summary: Learn the best practices for three-node hybrid deployment.
---

# Best Practices for Three-Node Hybrid Deployment

> For a TiDB cluster, if you do not want high performance but need to control the cost, you can deploy the TiDB, TiKV, and PD components on three machines in a hybrid way.

Author: ```suggestion
For a TiDB cluster, if you do not want high performance but a moderate cost, you can deploy the TiDB, TiKV, and PD components on three machines in a hybrid way.
```

![QPS with default config](/media/best-practices/three-nodes-default-config-qps.png)

After the parameter adjustment, the performance is improved.

![QPS with modified config](/media/best-practices/three-nodes-final-config-qps.png)

## Parameter adjustment

Performance jitter occurs in the image above, because the default thread pool configuration and the resource allocation to background tasks are for machines with sufficient resources. In the hybrid deployment scenario, the resources are shared among multiple components, so you need to limit the resource consumption via configuration parameters.

The final cluster configuration for this test is as follows:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
tikv:
    readpool.unified.max-thread-count: 6
    server.grpc-concurrency: 2
    storage.scheduler-worker-pool-size: 2
    gc.max-write-bytes-per-sec: 300K
    rocksdb.max-background-jobs: 3
    rocksdb.max-sub-compactions: 1
    rocksdb.rate-bytes-per-sec: “200M”

  tidb:
    performance.committer-concurrency: 4
    performance.max-procs: 8
```

The following sections introduce the meanings and the adjustment methods of these parameters.

### Configuration of TiKV thread pool size

> This section offers best practices for adjusting parameters that relate to the resource allocation of thread pools for foreground applications. Reducing these thread pool sizes will compromise performance, but in the hybrid deployment scenario, the available resources are limited, so the cluster is hard to achieve high performance. In this scenario, the overall stability of the cluster is preferred over performance.

Author: ```suggestion
This section offers best practices for adjusting parameters that relate to the resource allocation of thread pools for foreground applications. Reducing these thread pool sizes will compromise performance, but in the hybrid deployment scenario with limited resources, the cluster itself is hard to achieve high performance. In this scenario, the overall stability of the cluster is preferred over performance.
```

If you conduct an actual load test, you can first use the default configuration and observe the actual resource usage of each thread pool. Then you can adjust the corresponding configuration items and reduce the sizes of the thread pools that have lower usage.

#### `readpool.unified.max-thread-count`

The default value of this parameter is 80% of the number of machine threads. In a hybrid deployment scenario, you need to manually calculate and specify this value. You can first set it to 80% of the expected number of CPU threads used by TiKV.

#### `server.grpc-concurrency`

> This parameter defaults to `4`. Because in the existing deployment plan the CPU resources are limited, the actual requests are few. You can observe the monitoring panel, lower the value of this parameter, and keep the usage rate below 80%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter defaults to `4`. Because in the existing deployment plan, the CPU resources are limited and the actual requests are few. You can observe the monitoring panel, lower the value of this parameter, and keep the usage rate below 80%.
```

> Finally in this test, the value of this parameter is set to `2`. Observe the **gRPC poll CPU** panel and you can see that the usage rate is just around 80%.

Author: ```suggestion
In this test, the value of this parameter is set to `2`. Observe the **gRPC poll CPU** panel and you can see that the usage rate is just around 80%.
```

![gRPC Pool CPU](/media/best-practices/three-nodes-grpc-pool-usage.png)

#### `storage.scheduler-worker-pool-size`

> When TiKV detects that the CPU core number of the machine is greater than or equal to `16`, this parameter value defaults to `8`. When the CPU core number is smaller than `16`, the parameter value defaults to `4`. This parameter is used when TiKV converts complex transaction requests to simple key-value reads or writes, but the scheduler thread pool does not performs any reads or writes.

Reviewer: "reads" are not mentioned in [the Chinese version](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/three-nodes-hybrid-deployment). Please check.
```suggestion
When TiKV detects that the CPU core number of the machine is greater than or equal to `16`, this parameter value defaults to `8`. When the CPU core number is smaller than `16`, the parameter value defaults to `4`. This parameter is used when TiKV converts complex transaction requests to simple key-value reads or writes, but the scheduler thread pool does not performs any writes.
```

> Ideally, the usage rate of the scheduler thread pool should be kept between 50% and 75%. Similar to the gRPC thread pool, the `storage.scheduler-worker-pool-size` parameter defaults to a larger value during the hybrid deployment, which makes resource usage insufficient. In this test, the value of this parameter is set to `2`, which is in line with the best practices, a conclusion drawn by observing the corresponding metrics in the **Scheduler worker CPU** panel.

Author: ```suggestion
Ideally, the usage rate of the scheduler thread pool is kept between 50% and 75%. Similar to the gRPC thread pool, the `storage.scheduler-worker-pool-size` parameter defaults to a larger value during the hybrid deployment, which makes resource usage insufficient. In this test, the value of this parameter is set to `2`, which is in line with the best practices, a conclusion drawn by observing the corresponding metrics in the **Scheduler worker CPU** panel.
```

![Scheduler Worker CPU](/media/best-practices/three-nodes-scheduler-pool-usage.png)

### Resource configuration for TiKV background tasks

In addition to foreground tasks, TiKV regularly sorts data and cleans outdated data in background tasks. The default configuration allocates sufficient resources to these tasks for the scenario of high-traffic writes.

However, in the hybrid deployment scenario, this default configuration is not in line with the best practices. You need to limit the resource usage of background tasks by adjusting the following parameters.

#### `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` and `rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`

The RocksDB thread pool is used to perform compaction and flush jobs. The default value of `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` is `8`, which obviously exceeds the resource that is in need. Therefore, the value should be adjusted to limit the resource usage.

> `rocksdb.max-sub-compactions` indicates the number of concurrent sub-threads allowed for a single compaction job, which defaults to `3`. You can lower this value when the write traffic is not high.

Author: ```suggestion
`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions` indicates the number of concurrent sub-tasks allowed for a single compaction job, which defaults to `3`. You can lower this value when the write traffic is not high.
```

> In the test, the `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` value is set to `3` and the `rocksdb.max-sub-compactions` value is set to `1`. No write stall occurs during the 12-hour test with the TPC-C load. When optimizing the two parameter values according to the actual load, you can lower the values progressively based on monitoring metrics:

Author: ```suggestion
In the test, the `rocksdb.max-background-jobs` value is set to `3` and the `rocksdb.max-sub-compactions` value is set to `1`. No write stall occurs during the 12-hour test with the TPC-C load. When optimizing the two parameter values according to the actual load, you can lower the values gradually based on monitoring metrics:
```

> * If write stall occurs, you can first increase the value of `rocksdb.max-background-jobs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If write stall occurs, increase the value of `rocksdb.max-background-jobs`.
```

* If the write stall persists, set the value of `rocksdb.max-sub-compactions` to `2` or `3`.

#### `rocksdb.rate-bytes-per-sec`

This parameter is used to limit the disk traffic for the background compaction jobs. The default configuration has no limit for this parameter. To avoid the situation that compaction jobs occupy the resources of foreground services, you can adjust this parameter value according to the sequential read and write speed of the disk, which reserves enough disk bandwidth for foreground services.

The method of optimizing the RocksDB thread pool is similar to that of optimizing the compaction thread pool. You can determine whether the value you have adjusted is suitable according to whether write stall occurs.

#### `gc.max_write_bytes_per_sec`

> Because TiDB implements the multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) model, TiKV periodically cleans old version data in the background. When the available resources are limited, this operation causes periodical performance jitter. You can use the `gc.max_write_bytes_per_sec` parameter to limit the resource usage of such an operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because TiDB uses the multi-version concurrency control (MVCC) model, TiKV periodically cleans old version data in the background. When the available resources are limited, this operation causes periodical performance jitter. You can use the `gc.max_write_bytes_per_sec` parameter to limit the resource usage of such an operation.
```

![GC Impact](/media/best-practices/three-nodes-gc-impact.png)

> In addition to setting this parameter value in the configuration file, you can also dynamically adjust this value in tikv-ctl to make it easier for the parameter change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to setting this parameter value in the configuration file, you can also dynamically adjust this value in tikv-ctl.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup ctl tikv --host=${ip:port} modify-tikv-config -n gc.max_write_bytes_per_sec -v ${limit}
```

> **Note:**
>

> > In application scenarios with frequent updates, limiting GC traffic might cause the MVCC versions to pile up and affect read performance. You might need to try multiple times to adjust the value of this parameter in order to achieve a balance between performance jitter and performance decrease. In the future, TiKV will provide new optimization solution to such an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In application scenarios with frequent updates, limiting GC traffic might cause the MVCC versions to pile up and affect read performance. Currently, to achieve a balance between performance jitter and performance decrease, you might need to try multiple times to adjust the value of this parameter.
```

### TiDB parameter adjustment

Generally, you can adjust the TiDB parameters of execution operators using system variables such as `tidb_hash_join_concurrency` and `tidb_index_lookup_join_concurrency`.

> In this test, these parameters are not adjusted. In the load test of your actual application, if the execution operators consume excessive amount of CPU resources, you can limit the resource usage of specific operators according to your application scenario. For more details, see [TiDB system variables](/system-variables.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this test, these parameters are not adjusted. In the load test of your actual application, if the execution operators consume an excessive amount of CPU resources, you can limit the resource usage of specific operators according to your application scenario. For more details, see [TiDB system variables](/system-variables.md).
```

#### `performance.max-procs`

> This parameter is used to control how many CPU cores an entire Go process can use. By default, the value equals to the number of CPU cores of the current machine or cgroups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parameter is used to control how many CPU cores an entire Go process can use. By default, the value is equal to the number of CPU cores of the current machine or cgroups.
```

> When Go is running, a proportion of threads is used for background tasks such as GC. If you do not limit the value of the `performance.max-procs` parameter, these background tasks including GC will consume too many CPU cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Go is running, a proportion of threads is used for background tasks such as GC. If you do not limit the value of the `performance.max-procs` parameter, these background tasks will consume too much CPU.
```
